## Preface To The Revised Edition

In the first edition of this work, we announced that there would be a supplementary part comprised of all the issues which could not be fitted into that edition, or which later circumstances and investigation subsequently might bring to light. However, since those issues pertained to materials that had already been discussed and from which they had developed, to publish them in a separate volume would not actually represent a sequel. Therefore, we preferred to wait for the reprinting of the original in order to assemble all the parts together, and we also took advantage of the opportunity to arrange the book’s contents more methodically, while at the same time eliminating duplications. As a result, this reprinting may be considered as a new work, although the principles of the first edition have undergone no change, except for a few instances that comprise complements and explanations rather than true modifications. In spite of the diversity of the sources from which they have emanated, such conformity to the received teachings is an important fact for establishing the Spiritist Science. Moreover, our correspondence has shown us that communications that are identical (if not in form, at least in substance) were obtained in different places, and occurred even before the publication of our book, a fact that has come to confirm and systematize them. History, in turn, shows that most of its principles have been professed by the most distinguished thinkers of ancient and modern times; this fact lends them additional sanction.

The teachings regarding mediums and spirit manifestations make up an aspect of Spiritism that is somewhat different from the philosophy per se and can be the object of special study. Since that aspect has received considerable improvement after more experience has been acquired, we have decided to make a separate volume of it, containing the responses to all the questions related to manifestations and mediums, as well as to make several observations on practical Spiritism. This work will be a continuation of or supplement to The Spirits’ Book.

Allan Kardec
